- [Instructor] The dependency management system
is one of Mavens, most powerful features.
By default, it pulls dependencies from Maven Central.
So it's a great place to look
when you need to include a library in your project,
like Apache Commons.
Let's go ahead and we'll add that dependency
into our Maven project.
To do that, we can copy this snippet of XML.
Now let's first talk about it.
You'll notice it starts with the dependency tag
and then it includes the Maven coordinates within it.
This is how Maven identifies the dependency
it needs to pull from Maven Central.
So let's go ahead, we'll copy that XML.
And then we'll navigate over to Eclipse.
Now, before we just drop that XML inside of our palm,
we need to add a dependencies tag
and then inside the dependencies tag,
we can add the dependencies for our Maven project.
Okay, now our project will include Apache Commons.
Let's talk about one common scenario.
Often an organization will set up their own
artifact repository, so you'll need to configure
your project to pull dependencies from it.
And here's how that's done.
You add a repositories tag and then inside of that,
you add a repository.
Then you'll need to give an ID for the repository.
Let's say something like corporate.
Then you'll need to provide a URL that points
to your organization's internal artifact repository.
Now we're going to stick with Maven Central.
So I'm going to go ahead and remove this XML from our palm.
And then I'll just go ahead and save it.
Okay, so now we got the dependency within our project
and if we expand the Maven dependencies
within the package Explorer,
you'll notice there's the jar file, that includes the code.
Let's go ahead and we'll create a class
that uses some of the code found within Apache Commons.
So here in the new class dialogue,
I'm going to package the class
within the com.linkedin.JavaCD package.
And then I'll just keep it simple and name it application.
All right, so there's our new class.
I can go ahead, add a main method.
And then inside of that main method,
I'm going to print some output to the console
and to do that, I'm going to use the string utils class
from Apache Commons.
It has a capitalized method
that we can use to capitalize a string.
So here I'll just say hello learner, okay.
And that should be capitalized when our application runs.
So now let's head over to the terminal
and here I'll use the Maven wrapper
to package the application.
And there we can see the jar file that our build produced.
You'll notice it's placed in this directory target.
Let's go take a look at that.
The target directory is where by default Maven places,
all of the output from our build.
So there, you can see the compiled application class,
and then down here in the root of the target directory,
we have our jar file that was created.
Let's just hop into the target directory
and we can run our application.
So to do this,
we're going to have to specify the class path
and I've already prepared that so we can run quite easily.
It's a really long command.
Let's go ahead, we'll execute that.
And there we can see hello learner.
And the H in hello is capitalized.
So Mavens dependency management system made it fairly easy
to pull in an external library.
However, just packaging our code in a regular jar
made running an application very tricky
because we needed all of this to handle the classpath.
Spring Boot can help us
by packaging those application dependencies
inside of an executable jar.
Let's move on to our next lesson
and I'll show you how with Maven.